Hello and welcome.
Let's talk about implementing the iterator first will provide an overview and then we'll go through
an example.
Here is the class diagram for the iterator.
You'll notice there's the aggregate object the iterator which will be an interface and then we have
concrete iterator and concrete aggregates.
The cohesion here is separated between the aggregate and the iterator Klein will use both the aggregate
is really going to be responsible for creating and that will that create Interior will turn the correct
concrete iterator so the responsibilities of each object the iterator is going to define an interface
for accessing traversing elements.
So just like in collections it will have like a has Next on NEXT.
Know are there any has next will be Are there any left.
You know first reverse whatever it is the concrete iterator implements the iterator interface keeps
track of the current position in the traversal of the aggregate the aggregate defines an interface for
creating an iterator object.
Remember the aggregate is a collection of objects or collection of data that really represents a collect
collection or list or an array list or whatever it is.
So the aggregate defines that interface for creation the concrete aggregate is going to implement the
iterator creation interface to turn an instance of the proper concrete iterator a concrete iterator
keeps track of the current object in the aggregate and can compute the succeeding object in the traversal.
Really the next implementation consequences the implementation supports variations in the traversal
of an aggregate and may traverse the parse tree in order or preorder it arrays make it easy to change
the terminal algorithm you can just replace the iterator instance with a different one and you can also
define iterator subclasses to support new traversal as more than one traversal can be pending on an
aggregate some of the stuff we already mentioned parallel reversals going back and forth the iterator
basically keeps track of its own traversal state and you can have more than one traversal in progress
at any given time.
Now that we have a high level overview of the different objects and the responsibilities let's take
a look at an example in intelligent
All right we're gonna bring up the idea the name of this project just going to going to be iterator
example this example that we're gonna go through is going to utilize notifications it's gonna be like
a notification type of app I'll name it iterate for example just like that.
All right as I mentioned this is gonna be a notification type of avocation.
We're gonna create a notification bar that displays all the notifications and it's gonna be held in
a notification collection so we can provide a collection of notifications to the client and let them
write the logics traverse through the notifications and decide whether to process them.
This solution has lots of issues such as the client has to come up with the logic for traversal.
We can not ensure that the client's logic is correct.
If the number of clients grow that will become very hard to maintain.
So we're going to use the iterator pattern and provide an iteration so that we don't have these issues
with what I just mentioned we don't want to have the client write the traversal logic and that's why
the iterator pattern is gonna be so useful it's going to provide an iteration.
So the notification collection that we write is going to provide an iterator to iterate over its elements
without exposing how it's implemented how it implemented the collection and for example in this case
we're going to implement as an array it's not going to know how the clients not gonna know how it's
implemented.
They're just going to use a notification bar.
The client's only going to be able to access listen locations through the iterator.
So the first thing we need to do is we need to define the contract for our collection and iterator interfaces.
So we're gonna create a data class to store the notifications.
I'm going to say new Java class and this is gonna be called notification.
This is going to have a string for notification.
And this is going to store notification messages.
The constructor is just going set up that member variable
hopes.
So we're just going to say this dot notification notification and we're also gonna have a get method.
Public string get notification
and this will return notification.
Pretty straightforward.
We want to create it here.
The aggregate interface.
Remember this is defining the interface for creating the iterator object.
So we're new in this is gonna be called a collection and we're gonna say it's an interface.
And all this is gonna have in it is the create iterator method.
So we're gonna say public iterator create iterator and we're going to define that iterator class.
We also have to create the iterator interface.
So you're going to see new Java class iterator and this is going to be an interface.
Remember this enter into this interface is going to define the interface for accessing traversing the
elements.
So we're going to have methods in here for has an exit so we can say boolean has next.
And this is going to indicate indicates whether there are more elements to iterate over we're gonna
have one that returns the next element.
This is just going to return an object.
We're going to say next.
And that's our interface iterator.
We now need to create the concrete aggregate.
Remember this is going to implement the collection.
This integrates implements the iterator creation interface.
So it will return an instance of the proper concrete iterator.
So here we're gonna say this is gonna be our class notification so we're gonna say.
Class A notification collection implements collection
can add some member variables for the max items to stay static final int Max items.
Gonna set this to 6.
We're gonna have a current number of items
initialize at the 0 and then we're gonna have our array which is how the date is gonna be stored.
So notification notification list our constructor
is going to just initialize the array with our Max items so you can only store six notifications.
This is just gonna say notification list equals new notification and we're gonna say Max items we're
then going to add some items to the notification list in the in the constructor as well.
I'm just some dummy dummy one's going to say add item notification 1 and we'll define the set item in
a second and then we'll also do a couple more two and three
will implement the add item.
This is just gonna be a simple population of the array with strings.
So here we're gonna say notification notification equals new notification
as to your right.
And remember the notification interface third class I should say pretty simple.
Well we're also gonna make sure that if it's full we don't want to add anything so we're gonna say if
the number of items is full just print out full pronoun an error.
Otherwise we're gonna set the number of the set the right spot in the array and increment a counter
which is the number of items so something like that if number of items greater than equal to Max items
were full otherwise set that spot in the array and increment the current count.
We also have to implement our CRE iterator.
So we're gonna take public iterator create iterator and this is just going to return our notification
iterator
and it's going to take a notification list
something like that and we still have to create that notification iterator class and so we're gonna
create another concrete iterator.
We created the concrete aggregate.
Right.
Which just implements that create iterator.
Now we need to create the concrete iterator the concrete iterator implements the iterator interface
keeps track of the current position in the terrorists all of the aggregate.
We're gonna say new Java class and this is gonna be notification iterator and this is going to implement
our iterator and hopefully clear up some of those errors in the collection class.
Here we're gonna have our array notification notification list.
We're going to have a current position.
So this is gonna maintain maintains the current position of the iterator over the array.
So we're just gonna say and position equals zero and then the constructor is gonna take an array of
notification list to iterate over.
So we're just gonna set up our member variable something like that.
The other thing is we need to do in the concrete iterator is we need to implement those methods and
interface the next and the has next.
So we're gonna have a public object next and this is going to return the next item in the array at the
correct position and increment the position so that's pretty straight forward.
We just say notification notification equals notification list opposition the index and position increment
the position and return the notification R has next.
Just has to check if the position is greater than the length or if the position is null.
So if the position is greater equal than the length or the notification list position is null then we
won't return false.
Otherwise we still have elements we can iterate over and we're going to return true.
We also want to create a helper to store collections so we're gonna create a notification bar class.
So we're gonna say notification bar and this is going to take collection of notifications as part of
the has an object of the notification collection.
So just put that in there and we're gonna have an instance of the normal case collection and we're just
gonna set that up in the constructor.
This seems to be a pattern right we have our notifications we have a notification bar that sets that
up.
We then want to just print our notifications out and this will be for testing so that we know the pattern
is working.
So we have print notifications we go through we use our iterator we create it right through the notification
collection we create our iterator we print out a little message and then we use the iterator to traverse
the collection.
And again this is the helper that the client can use.
Now we can create the client and the client we pretty straightforward because we have that helper class.
So now we say client we had our main method
and this is just going to create a notification collection.
And see new notification collection doesn't take anything in the constructor.
And remember the notification collection if I can find it here the notification collection will populate
some items by default
we then need to have our notification bar so a notification bar and b equals new notification bar.
Remember this will pass in the collection or the.
Yeah the notification collection.
Then we can just say and beat out print notifications which will use the iterator create the iterator.
All right.
That was our helper.
It will create the iterator in the aggregate object and then use the iterator to go through towards
the collection.
So looks like we have a problem and here we have an extra bracket.
So let's go ahead and run this and see what it builds first and see if it runs again.
No dumb mistakes and now we can run through the client and we can see our elements being traversed notification
1 notification to notification 3 so we could have also you'll notice in our collection that we use an
array.
We could also use an array list instead of an array.
There won't be any change for the client if we change this array list array to in a really an array
list the notification bar code will not need to be changed either the decoupling is achieved through
the user through the iterator interface so it's a nice thing or we can separate the aggregation the
collection aggregate object I should say from the iterator
it's a nice implementation of the iterator design pattern.
Thank you.